## REVISION
 1. <font size=5> **Docker Image** </font>:
  a lightweight, standalone, and executable package that includes everything needed to run an application. It contains the application's code, runtime, system tools, libraries, and dependencies. Docker images are built using a <font size=5> **Dockerfile** </font> and can be shared, stored, and deployed across different environments.

 2. <font size=5> **Docker File** </font>
A Dockerfile is a text file that contains a set of instructions for building a Docker image. It specifies the base image, adds dependencies, configures the environment, copies files, and defines runtime commands. Dockerfiles use a specific syntax and a set of instructions provided by Docker. Here's an example of a Dockerfile for a simple Python application:

Dockerfile
```
# Use the official Python base image
FROM python:3.9

# Set the working directory in the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the requirements file and install dependencies
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

# Copy the application code into the container
COPY . .

# Specify the command to run the application
CMD ["python", "app.py"]
```
> ## docker build -t <image_name>:<tag> <path_to_dockerfile> : CREATES DOCKER IMAGE
> ##  docker run -d -p 8000:8000 myapp:latest : CREATES A CONTAINER(Running instance of an image) FROM IMAGE
---<br/>
<br/>
> ### The Dockerfile serves as a blueprint for creating a Docker image that encapsulates your application and its dependencies. Running a Dockerfile allows you to build an image with the required software, configurations, and dependencies in a consistent and reproducible manner. By running the Dockerfile, you create an image that can be used to run containers containing your application
> ### A Docker image is a template or blueprint for creating containers, while a Docker container is a running instance of an image that encapsulates the application and its dependencies. Images are used for creating containers, and each container derived from an image is an isolated and runnable environment.
<br/>

3. <font size=5> **Docker Compose** </font> Docker Compose is a tool used for defining and managing multi-container Docker applications. It allows you to define a multi-service application setup using a YAML file called docker-compose.yml. With Docker Compose, you can specify the configuration of services, network connections, volumes, and dependencies between containers, making it easier to deploy and manage complex applications.
> ## docker compose up [OPTIONS] [SERVICE...]: Builds and image and gets the container running

4. <font size=5> **Docker Containers** </font> Containers are isolated runtime environments created from Docker images. They encapsulate applications and their dependencies, ensuring consistency across different environments. Containers provide process isolation, resource allocation, and portability, allowing applications to run consistently across different systems. Containers are created and managed by Docker.

5.
